/////////Exercises///////


1. Using proper pseudo-code, describe the following primitive algorithms:

- Making coffee (how I do it);
  
  PC: 	FILL electric kettle to full line distilled water
	
	INITIATE the kettle's heating function by pressing down the lever
	
	WHILE water is heating, TARE measuring bowl on scale
		
	IN the now-tared measuring cup, POUR whole coffee beans of your choice to desired amount 	in grams
	
	MULTIPLY the weight of the coffee beans by 16 to get the weight of water you need to add
	
	GRIND beans to a medium coarseness (the size of a rough, grainy sand)
	
	PLACE filter in the Chemex top, thickest side on the side of the spout
	
	IF water has reached its proper temp, the kettle should have turned itself off
	
	IF kettle is off, moisten the empty filter to HEAT the carafe and eliminate paper taste 	that comes from a dry filter

	POUR out water from carafe AND PLACE empty Chemex on the scale

	POUR ground beans AND tare the scale again so that it is at 0 grams

	WITH the weight in grams of water that you need in mind, pour hot water over the beans

	FILL the filter part of the carafe to about half

	LET coffee brew for about a minute

	REPEAT the pouring process in minute intervals, keeping the water level at about half 		way full UNTIL scale displays the proper weight. 
	
	REACH proper weight in grams THEN let coffee finish brewing.

	IF there is no more water dripping from the filter into the carafe THEN

	FINISHED
	


- Washing dishes;

  PC:	START by turning on hot water
	
	PLACE dirty dishes in right sink

	THEN grab each dish one by one and REMOVE grime and food particles in left sink
	
	PLACE cleaned off dish in dishwasher

	CONTINUE until right sink is empty
	
	END the hot water by turning it off

	THEN place dishwasher pod in its receptacle in the dishwasher door

	START dishwasher 

	WHILE dishwasher is running CLEAN counter tops and WIPE up excess water

	THEN when the dishwasher is finished, OPEN AND PULL racks out to air dry
	
	WHEN dry, PUT away dishes THEN

	FINISHED


- A choice of your own (eating pizza).

  PC:	START by placing slice of pizza in mouth

	THEN bite down until piece of pizza separates from the larger slice

	INITIATE chewing the piece of pizza you bit off UNTIL it is broken down to desirable 		swallowing size

	THEN swallow chewed piece of pizza

	WHILE pizza slice exists in hand CONTINUE to bite chew and swallow

	WHEN slice is null THEN

	GRAB  another slice, because weirdos only eat one slice

	REPEAT process with second slice

	WHEN whole pizza is finished WEEP
	
	THEN
	
	FINISHED



2. As with the knot algorithm, there may be more than one way to solve the problem. It is essential to try to pick the best algorithm for a situation. Name three companies who created an algorithm that made them successful, e.g., Google's search algorithm. It doesn't need to be a tech example (such as a recipe or manufacturing a product). Google's algorithm produces more relevant results than other search engines; what about each of your cases make them stand out?

	-1. McDonald's. They standardized their menu and food items down to a science.

	-2. Subway. Same as McDonald's but with sandwiches.

	-3. Uber. You request and über, get picked up then dropped off where you want to go. 



3 Hypothesize about what constitutes an efficient algorithm versus an inefficient algorithm.

Answer: What makes an algorithm efficient over inefficient is an algorithm that, firstly, does its best stay simple and DRY. It is repeatable and functions within a finite amount of time that is predictable. Namely, the process needs to be a sequence of logical steps. It needs to accomplish the desired end result, and it needs to do so in the amount of time allotted. 

